Sama Abu Safa left his home in wadel
sulka in central Gaza in his wheelchair
with his two
sons forced to flee in the middle of a
bombing campaign on roads turned to
Rubble was next to
Impossible assama is now in a un shelter
it's a school turned refuge for
thousands of displaced Palestinians and
is woefully inadequate for his
needs there is stairs no ramps and squat
toilets which people in wheelchairs
can't
use the situation in Gaza is extremely
difficult for those with disabilities
there is no medicine for illnesses the
other major challenge is getting food
you can't stand in a line for long hours
if you have a disability you also can't
shower my son H doesn't shower basma has
a speech and Mobility impairment and so
her mother decided to risk the Israeli
air strikes and stay home
we have struggled with her mobility and
so we have stayed in our house and are
hoping nothing happens we are struggling
to find her adult nappies since she
can't go to the toilet on her own due to
the Cross enclosures we cannot find them
anymore and if we do they are extremely
expensive medicines for long-term
illnesses and devices such as crutches
hearing aids and Walkers are in short
supply thanks to the blockade by
Israel is is is a signatory to the
United Nations convention on the rights
of persons with disabilities but the
evacuation orders it gives do not take
them into account the UN convention on
the rights of people with disabilities
provides a streamwork for safeguarding
human rights and conflict affected
States um in particular it obliges State
parties to take all necessary measures
to ensure protection and safety of
people with disabilities in arm conflict
Israeli authorities are not taking the
minimum
measures Israel's war is a threat to all
Palestinians in Gaza but the close to
50,000 people with disabilities are
among the most vulnerable image and
Kimber Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer